# Classification-of-Journal-Abstracts-into-Categories
This project was done as a part of the Applied Machine Learning Course (COMP 551) at McGill University and was done in a group of 3 students. The project investigated different classification methods to predict the categories of various research papers from scientific journals. We evaluated three different machine learning techniques to compare and contrast their suitability for the task of text classification. The data set comprised of approximately 90000 samples with each entry having a unique ID, the abstract of a scientific journal and the actual category the journal falls into. The categories were either math, cs, physics or stat. An additional test set comprised of approximately 15000 entries with their categories being left out for prediction. We analyzed the given abstracts/documents in the data-set to identify and extract suitable features to be used in the classification process. We experimented and evaluated the accuracy &amp; error for three different classifiers: Logistic Regression, k-Nearest Neighbors and Support-Vector- Machines(SVM). My responsibility in this project included extraction of useful features from the data and also executing SVM and Neural Networks (as an additional classifier) for this supervised classification task. We were able to acheive an accuracy of around 82% on the test set.
Each method has an individual readme file inside each folder. I realize that the dataset is not available in the repository.
If you're intersted send an email to jaspal.singh1303@gmail.com and I can help you with the dataset.
